
Experiment 7:
Experiment to test the algorithm on real data

Tested with the e. coli strains k12 and bl21.
The results are far too messy to make meaningful conclusions from them. The algorithm seems too sensitive.
I will try to increase the coverage of the alignment (how many times a single base pair appears in reads).

This will change the way that the script works, because using the array of the differences in position won't work.
But with more reads of varying length starting from the same position, we should no longer need to test the
continuity of the reads. Multiple reads should confirm the presence of a breakpoint and where it maps to, as the
reads continue to progress through the sequence.

This new method will be described in the "Notes_Nov.txt" file

To see how the new adapted algorithm finds known breakpoints, it will once again be tested


Experiment 7.1:
    Testing the new algorithm on artificially rearranged (synthetic) genomes:
    Made two translocations in the file "lv_mc.fa", this is the multichromosomal version of the synthetic lambda phage
    genome. Saved the rearranged genome as "lv_mc_exp7_1". Made reads from the original and the rearranged genomes
    (300 bp long, 250 bp overlap, position changes by 50 from one read to the next).

    The plan is to change the script such that it looks for areas that mapped badly. It will look for reads that
    map very badly (single digit MAPQ scores), it will then return the reads before and after the badly mapped one.
    It will add the neighbouring reads to a list until the MAPQ has stabilized. The script will then look at the
    CIGAR string and pinpoint the breakpoint.

    My method still did not work. Trying a new method for constructing reads such that coverage is greatly increased.


Experiment 7.2:
    Made reads with a new algorithm, see "make _reads_fa.py" for details.
    Tested by mapping the unchanged lambda virus genome onto itself (unchanged).
    Sorted the SAM file and confirmed that all the reads map correctly to the genome.

    Will introduce a rearrangement and test to see if the border can be identified.

    Two deletions were made in lv_mc_exp7_2.fa. I will map reads made from this file to the unchanged genome.



Decided to keep my notes in one place for better organization. See the Notes_{month}.txt files.