
Experiment to test the adapted algorithm on the normal rearrangements.
Will first be tested on uni-chromosomal test data, followed by multi-chromosomal test data.
Finally, if the results are good and no more changes are necessary, the algorithm will be tested on real data in a
future experiment.

Experiment 5.1:
    Will map genomes with rearrangements onto the unchanged lambda virus genome
    - Translocation: exp5_1.sam, exp5_2.sam, exp5_3.sam
        Middle to middle:
            Visually the alignment worked, can the algorithm return the correct borders?
            RESULT: The script "consecutive_block_test.py" ALONE was able to detect each border. In this case using the
                quality score was not even necessary, but will definitely be helpful to investigate edge cases and even
                to apply some statistical treatment.

        Middle to end:
            Worked again. The consecutive blocks are clearly identified.

        Middle to front:
            Worked again.


Experiment 5.2:

    - Deletion and Insertion:
        Deletion from middle:
        - 2 deletions were made.
            Result: Borders were easily identifiable

        Insertion into middle:
        - Testing the exact same files but mapping reciprocally.
            Result: Worked better than expected. Not only are the borders clearly visible, but it is also
                evident which borders belong to the insertion. They are returned as a consecutive block
                that starts at position 0 and ends at position 0. This is good.

        Deletion from start AND middle:
            Result: Only 1 continous block is returned, but it is evident from the positions that the end and
            the middle have both been deleted.

        Insertion at start AND middle:
            (reciprocal mapping of the same files)
            Result: 3 blocks are returned, clearly showing where the reads do not map (the inserted sequences).

Experiment 5.3:

    - Reversal/inversion:
        In middle:
            Result: The borders are returned with no problems. However, there is no difference in the way the borders
                are returned compared to insertion, because to the mapping algorithm there is no difference. All that
                is detectable is that some reads did not map anywhere. This might need to change.
        Reciprocal map (middle):
            Result: The EXACT same borders are returned. I am tempted to say that I can identify inversion (reversal
                of a sequence) by reciprocally mapping and seeing which borders are shared (exactly) between the two
                genomes. However, Bowtie2 uses random seeds when choosing where to start making alignments, so this
                must be kept in mind for larger genomes with many rearrangements. Although this algorithm is intended
                for use on very closely related species.
        End of sequence:
            Result: Exactly the same as previous, tested reciprocally.