
13/09/21:
    With the moderate success of experiment 3.2, I now need to verify that the badly mapped reads and the borders of
    consecutive blocks match up. In the experiment, out of the 2 reads that make up a border, at least one of them
    mapped badly, and it follows that this is the read containing the breakpoint. If both reads mapped badly it would
    indicate that the breakpoint spans both reads. But how do we know this? I need to construct a few more artificial
    rearrangements in the simulated genome in order to test this hypothesis. I propose that 2 more successful
    experiments (where every border coincides with at least one or at most 2 badly mapping reads) would be sufficient
    to move on to real data.

    In the meantime I will try to find an appropriate data set to test this on. The requirements are as follows:
    Two closely related strains of bacteria (or other microbe with small genome).
    Fully sequenced genomes (not in reads, preferably fastQ files with base-calling quality).
    A small number of (preferably) large rearrangements between the two strains/species.

    Look for literature on this.


    15/09/21:
    Have not had time to do the aforementioned experiments. Family emergency. Will attempt these experiments today
    and tomorrow. What rearrangements will we use? One should be a large deletion. See if I can find it from both
    ways. One genome would see it as an insertion and the other as a deletion. What would the borders look like if
    we don't have positions anymore? Should we do a reversal as well? I think my algorithm should be able to identify
    reversals.

    Make a large deletion and reciprocally map the changed genome to the original one. Do the borders and badly mapping
    reads match up?
    Do the same for the another rearrangement, a large reversal of a sequence.
    Then, consider making a transposition that includes one of the ends of the sequence.

    If these tests return good results, we can make the script zoom into the borders to a base-pair level by looking
    at the CIGAR string.